>> Brian Holt: We are now going
to talk about TypeScript.
Now, this is a whirlwind
tour of TypeScript.
And to be honest with you,
this is not really meant to be your
first introduction to TypeScript.
I will try and
explain things as I go along but
there are lots of great resources
on TypeScript in general.
This is meant to be a how do
you use TypeScript with React?
That's the point of what we're
gonna talk about right now, so
I will not necessarily be
covering all the basics of it.
An overview of what
TypeScript is meant to be.
JavaScript is not type safe.
It's a dynamic language.
It's done so
on purpose because it's a very
productive language to work in, right?
If I come in here to my application just
somewhere and say const x = 5 and
I wanna say const y = x.toUpperCase.
>> Brian Holt: toUpperCase, obviously,
this is not gonna work.
You and I both can see right
away that this is a number and
that's gonna cause an error right there.
You're trying to call an undefined
method on here because 5 doesn't have
toUpperCase, right?
It would have to be some string,
>> Brian Holt: Because
this is not type safe, right?
If you were doing something like some sort
of strongly-typed language like Haskell,
it'd be just yelling at you
saying that doesn't work, right?
>> Brian Holt: So
we're gonna introduce a kind of a thin
layer on top of it called TypeScript.
And now there's kind of two
choices here for JavaScript.
You can either do Flow or
you can do TypeScript.
The previous version of this course,
V3 does Flow.
So if you're interested in Flow,
go back and look at that one.
I'm gonna show you TypeScript today and
people always wanna ask us which one is
your favorite,
which one is the best, which one?
Which tribe should I belong to?
And my answer to that
question is I don't care.
[LAUGH] I think both them
are awesome pieces of technology.
They both more or
less scratch my itch with it.
I more recently have started using
TypeScript because I sit next to
the TypeScript team at Microsoft and
I think they're really cool.
So and they've shown me some
of their tips and tricks.
I've seen some of the things
that come with it and
probably most compellingly is VSCode.
This particular editor has deep
integration with TypeScript.
So it makes VSCode super,
super compelling.
All right, so
I can move back to a base state.
So I'm gonna show you quickly
how to convert a React project
into a TypeScript project.
I tweeted the other day,
cuz I was doing it for this project,
that TypeScript is incredibly frustrating
until you're about 60 to 70% converted.
And then it's amazing, right?
It goes from this is the worst and
fighting your tools to having
the best time with it.
And it's like flipping a switch.
Once you have enough of your project
typed, it starts really paying dividends
really quickly, cuz you're gonna
have things like IntelliSense.
You're gonna have things like catching
bugs really quickly and really well.
There's a bunch of stuff that just
makes it work super, super well.
>> Brian Holt: So
I'm gonna help you do that right now.
let's go over to our command line here and
we're gonna install some
new dependencies here.
The first one, as you might guess, we're
gonna install npm install -D typescript.
>> Brian Holt: Okay?
So this installs
the TypeScript project for us.
And I'm going to use this TypeScript
project to init my project.
So I'm gonna say npx tsc.
tsc is the TypeScript compiler,
which is gonna come from our
Node modules cuz of npx, --init.
>> Brian Holt: So you can see now,
>> Brian Holt: I have this tsconfig.json,
that's what I just generated with
this last statement right here.
>> Brian Holt: If I go look
at that in the tsconfig now,
you can see here that it has
a bunch of stuff in here.
>> Brian Holt: One of the best parts about
TypeScript is it's going to give you type
definitions for
all of your various dependencies.
That's going to incredibly helpful to us.
So a lot of the libraries that
you are using already ship with
TypeScript dependencies.
For example, RxJS.
RxJS itself is written in TypeScript.
So TypeScript is really easy, has a really
easy time of just reading everything
coming in and out of RxJS because
it's already written in TypeScript.
But for example, Reach Router, the router
that we're using for this project,
does not have TypeScript definitions.
So what do we do about that?
I don't wanna write them.
That would be really complicated,
cuz I don't understand Reach Router
that intricately, right?
Well, luckily other really smart
people have already done this for you.
There's a project called definitelytyped
and I think it's at definitelytyped.org.
It might be, but anyway just search for
definitelytyped and you'll find it.
And if I say here npm install -d.
For example, @types/react, right?
React is not written in TypeScript but
it does have TypeScript definitions here,
@/types/react, right?
And that's the key here.
If I wanna get the type descript
definitions I'll just write
@types/react-dom, right?
And that's how it works.
And we'll also grab it for
types/reach__router.
This one's kind of a weird one because the
way that it's typically is @reach/router.
So the way you convert that over
is you delete the @ part and
you put two underscores for the router.
So that's how you end up with that.
So this is gonna out and grab all the
definitions, all the TypeScript goodness
from, definitelytyped and
bring that into our projects.
So despite the fact that React
is not written TypeScript,
we now have all the definitions.
So we can do IntelliSense, we can type
check, we can do all those great things.
Because, I mean, if you want to see what
a TypeScript definition file looks like,
>> Brian Holt: This is what it looks like.
Type definitions for React 16.
It is really long.
Really long.
Extremely long, 2500 lines.
Someone went through and
painstakingly documented that,
all the various types to come in and
out of React.
This is so that at any given time,
you know exactly what everything is,
which is amazing.
>> Brian Holt: Okay?
>> Brian Holt: Another cool thing about
TypeScript is you can do one file
at a time.
You don't have to build Rome in a day.
You can convert file by file by
file if you have a big project and
piece by piece to being in
TypeScript from JavaScript.
Because JavaScript and TypeScript
can interoperate with each other.
TypeScript is essentially just a little
extra shook on JavaScript anyway.
So let's open right now,
which one do I do first here?
Modal, cuz that one's pretty small.